Is the cassette changed?
Everything's going.
Okay, we're all set if you are.
Oh, the tape is rolling again.
The tape is rolling?
Not there yet.
Okay, are you there?
Yep.
Okay, the tape is rolling, so we're ready.
So I'll reiterate.
Just how do you go about editing a book?
Okay, well, I'll tell you how I went about editing a book.
I had the idea, this was way back in the early 70s,
of doing a book of science fiction by women, about women.
I didn't think there'd be much point in doing science fiction by women
and having it all be about men or something,
because, I mean, that wouldn't really focus the book,
at least as far as I was concerned it wouldn't.
But I wanted to do something like that.
It occurred to me that there were a lot of stories that could be used,
and then I tried to sell the book and I could call it.
I sent it around everywhere.
I sent it from the highest to the lowest.
I mean, I sent it to schlocky publishers,
I sent it to good publishers,
I sent it to publishers in between the two streams,
and I would get letters back saying,
this is a very nice idea, somebody should do this,
but it isn't going to be us.
This is very nice, but it has limited appeal.
That was my favorite.
I said, yes, it certainly does.
It's only a little more than 50% of the population.
But, I've been sending it around for about two years.
And finally, when I was about ready to give up,
I got a letter from Von de McIntyre,
who had found out that someone at Vintage Books
was interested in an anthology of that kind.
And in fact, they had, I guess, asked her if she wanted to do one.
She had known that I was sending my book around
and not having much luck with it,
so she told me about this, which was, you know,
to, so it's certainly kind of her to do.
And I submitted the book to them and they took it.
After that, I had to learn about editing
because I had to start weeding things out.
I had to realize that I couldn't put every last thing
in the book that I had to have some sort of structure
to the story, some sort of way of setting them up in the book
so that they sort of followed one from the other.
I decided, finally, just to use the obvious method,
which was to take the one that was published earliest
and put it at the beginning,
and take the one that was published most recently
and put it at the end so you sort of see how things
progress over time.
And then after that, I had to write the introduction.
And that was probably the hardest part
because I had to do quite a lot of research for that.
But I think it helped me.
And I also think it probably aided the other two books,
which I did later.
Those, the other two women of Wonder Books,
I had not thought of doing them when I did the first.
And the publisher was the one that proposed them to me.
They proposed the second one, first of all,
and then asked me if I wanted to do a third one also,
thinking, I guess, that everything is supposed to come
in threes nowadays.
And that was why I did the other two.
But I don't know if that would work for anyone else
as far as if I were giving advice to someone as to how to edit.
But all I can say is if you have an idea that's really striking
and you really feel that there's a lack of that particular kind of book,
that it is something that would be valuable to readers
for many years,
or that presents certain stories that haven't been reprinted
or that presents stories in a certain way that is itself informative.
And if you're really determined, I think it's worth it
just to keep sending the thing around and sending it around
and waiting until somebody buys it.
At which point you will then learn about what editing a book is, I suppose.
Since I didn't really know what it was when I was sending the proposal around.
I had to learn it as I was doing the first book.
How do you get people to submit stories once the idea is there?
Well, what I did with this book is I had an easier task, I think,
because I used stories that had already been published.
But what I had to do is I had to read about everything.
I could get my hands on magazines and apologies.
Old paperback reprints, everything.
I had to read about probably 50 times as many stories
as I actually wound up publishing for each book.
And then once I had the list of stories that I finally wanted to use,
at that point I would write to the office.
Of course, then you have the problem of what if somebody can't give you the right to reprint the story.
And that happened to me a couple of times.
There were a couple of stories I wanted to use and I could not get permission for them.
Not through any fault of the authors, just because the stories were tied up in some way.
And that made it necessary to do a little restructuring on a couple of the books.
But overall, I'm satisfied with the way they turned out.
And there wasn't a single story in any of them that I didn't like myself.
I think that's important.
I think an editor has to pick stories that she likes for whatever reason
and put those in rather than worrying about what someone else is going to like.
I think if you like the stories, someone else will too anyway.
And the chances are good if you try to get a variety of stories
that you'll have something that appeals to almost anyone.
So you aim for your taste really and if you want to be a commercial success,
you hope that your taste and those of the public at large jive.
That's what I keep doing and everything.
I suppose that that's probably naive in some ways,
but I think I'd rather be naive than cynical.
I just don't think there's any point in worrying about what other people like.
First of all, I think people like a lot more things than many publishers are willing to admit
or give them credit for liking.
I mean, the publishers talk as if there's a great appetite for junk
and that's what they might as well publish.
And yet, whenever I talk to anybody, I hear things like,
God, all this junk on the bookshelves, you know,
why are they publishing all these trashy books or things like that?
I hear that kind of comment all the time.
Not just about science fiction, I mean about a lot of things.
I don't think science fiction is the worst offender in this regard.
It may be one of them, but it's not the worst.
And I really don't think that there is some appetite for junk.
Everybody has, I suppose, their favorite little bit of junk that they like
or their particular advice.
But I don't think the appetite is as great as publishers think.
I think a lot of publishers operate their companies as if they have contempt
for the people who read the book.
And I especially think this is true, I'm afraid, among some of the science fiction editors.
And it's too bad because I don't think the appetite for junk is quite as large as they think.
And I do think that good books that can hang on and stay around for a while
have a much better chance over the long run of doing well for the publisher.
Although the publishers don't seem to realize this.
I don't think you can concoct books, in other words.
I don't think you can sit there and try to concoct something that people are going to buy.
I think you have to be sincere about it.
And I think that in that lousy book, there are going to be a lot of readers who may respond to that sincerity.
And however flawed the book may be, there will be an essential thing in it that readers will like
or respond to in some way, even if it's not a critical success.
But if you try to concoct something or deliberately set out to engineer a book
that's going to appeal to a lot of people, I just don't think it works.
I think readers can spot that sort of thing.
They may read it. They may buy it if there's nothing else on the stand.
But I don't think that they'll choose it if they have a choice.
Okay. I want to now kind of sum up your work.
I found a sentence when I was reading the afterward to Gene Wolfe's fifth head of servers, which you wrote.
And I'll read it. It's a short quote.
And to me, it sums up what your work is all about.
And I want to see if you agree with me.
Okay. The quote is,
The quest for certainty and our notion of human beings as separate cells seeking a power over other separate cells
must give way to a more integrated view of the universe and our growing place in it.
To me, that sums up a lot of what your fiction is about.
Well, I'm trying to think what to say to that.
Yeah.
Yeah. Just give me a couple of seconds.
I'll think about that. See if there's anything illuminating I can say.
Well, it's just my guess too, so it may even be wrong.
No, I think it's probably true.
I think it's probably true.
I think, well...
I think there are great many problems in the world, if not most of them,
have probably been caused by people wanting an absolute certainty
or seeking an absolute kind of power
or seeing things in these divisive kinds of ways.
And I think, and without that sort of thing, I think it's obvious things would be better.
This is going to sound very platitudinous, I'm sure.
Nope. Sometimes platitudes are right.
Okay. That's the formal interview.
I wanted to ask you a couple of things from a fan's point of view.
I was looking at your letter last night where you had the books that you were going to sell me.
The four anthologies, I couldn't tell if they were first editions or not.
Do you know all the vintage paperbacks? Are they first editions?
No. By now they wouldn't be. They've all been reprinted.
Okay. But the copies that you have?
Yeah. No. Well, with the women of wonder, I don't think I have any first editions.
I don't have a couple floating around, but with the other books, I do have some firsts of Bio Futures
and I do have some firsts of the other two also.
Okay. But women of wonder, not okay.
I may pick those up one of these days if you still have them around.
Yeah. I do have copies. I do have copies of all of them.
Okay. Or if you want vintage hazelnut print, too, so you can always get them from them, too.
Okay. I kind of tend to go for first editions if I can get them, so I may have some of my friends look for them,
see what I can do.
You and George both seem to have to hold Pat Labrudo in high esteem.
Would he be a good editor for us to talk to as far as just getting an interview from an editor from his point of view?
Is he accessible?
Yeah. He might be interesting. I'll tell you why.
Well, first of all, he worked at Ace before he worked at Double Day.
And what he would be interesting for is...
I'll keep going.
First of all, he could tell you about what it's like to work at a paperback house.
He could tell you about what it's like to work at a hardcover house.
I think he probably has almost too much work to do, probably, at Double Day.
He certainly has plenty of work to do, although at Ace I think he was much more overworked.
But I think he might be interesting to talk to.
Okay, good. We don't want to bother him if he doesn't want to be bothered,
but we would like to get an editor's point of view and maybe some advice and that sort of thing, too.
Well, one thing that might be useful to ask him also is that Double Day is probably one of the few places
where it's at least somewhat possible for a first novelist to get a novel published.
I mean, a first novel, say...
It's easier to get one published there than at some other places, I think.
So for...you know, that might be something to ask him about.
What is the chance for a first novel being published?
Okay. One thing we're working on is...
We're trying to force them off on the public, at which time we'll, of course, contact you.
But that we're also interested in talking to editors for that reason.
But we're interested in talking to them.
They're just another facet of science fiction field that fans know very little about.
In fact, we know very little about. We'd like to find out a lot more about them.
They're always something that you...they're maligned in print and people trying to submit books.
They're these evil ogres that are sitting up there between them and fame.
And we'd just like to get their point of view one of these days.
Yeah. Well, probably would be a good one to ask since his line is one of the larger ones, for one thing.
And it's one of the more long-standing ones.
I mean, Double Day has had a science fiction line for quite some time now.
So he might be interesting to talk to about that.
But the best thing to do is just ask him. If he is too busy, he'll tell you.
Okay.
I don't think he'd be mad at being asked.
Okay. Okay, listen, it's been very nice talking to you. Thank you for consenting.
And we look forward to seeing what else comes out.
Okay, yeah, we will...we can send you a copy of the interview and what we will do when we cut it up and make the programs.
We will also...no, we can. We will send you copies of that program as well.
We'll send her a copy of the programs as they're aired this week.
Yeah, as they're...the program...so what you will hear, the program part will be what will be aired on the radio.
So that will probably, what, two or three months whenever it goes on the schedule, yeah.
But we'll have them long before that. So one of these days, we'll get those to you.
Okay.
And sure appreciate it and look forward to seeing more good things from you.
Okay. Bye-bye now.